README.md, before:

Amidar 500

This is a (successful) attempt by jotd to create a 1:1 port of the famous arcade game on Amiga 500 using 100% 68k assembly.

The display is 4:3 so scores, lives, bonuses are on the side rather than on top/botton. The gameplay layout is 1:1 vs
the original, though.

REQUIRES:

- any 68k CPU
- Kickstart 1.3, 512k memory or
- Kickstart 2.0, 1MB memory

FEATURES:

- original visual & sounds
- original ghost behaviour & speed
- 50 frames per second (PAL) even on a 68000 A500
- all levels & bonuses
- original intro
- joystick controlled (port 1) or keyboard controls (arrows + space)
- can run directly from shell or from whdload (fast machines/complex configurations)

CONTROLS:

- joystick directions/arrows: move pacman
- space/fire button: start game
- P/second button: pause
- F10 (or quitkey): quit

ISSUES:

- turn correction not perfect, sometimes character blocks
- level 1: thief almost 8 loops: attacks
- level 2: thief almost 7 loops: attacks
- so on...
- rip extra life sound
- rip thief attack sound
- thief attack pauses, then more or less random, then follow
- highscore table: duplicate highscore from actual table
- enemy speed increasing
- number of enemies increasing
- killed on horiz: hanging, killed on vertical: falling
- blink pink / blink like cattle thief

CREDITS:

- jotd: code and gfx/sfx conversion
- phx: sfx/module player
- meynaf: random routine
- eab forum: useful advice & support
- Superjustinbros: sprite rips https://www.spriters-resource.com/arcade/amidar
- konami: original game :)

BUILDING FROM SOURCES:

Prerequesites:

- Windows
- python
- Amiga NDK
- sox (included)
- vasm 68k (included)

* besides the .bin files created from png by python, the rest of the process could be built on an amiga with phxass
 or some other assembler and sox for the amiga, but you have to be really mad to attempt it in 2021...)
* could be done on Linux, just rebuild vasm

Build process:

- To create the ".bin" files and some palette .s asm files, from "assets" subdir, 
  just run the "convert_sprites.py" python script, then use the "convert_sounds.py"
  python script (audio).
- python and sox must be installed to be able to perform the wav2raw conversions
- get "bitplanelib.py" (asset conversion tool needs it) at https://github.com/jotd666/amiga68ktools.git

Binary assets must be created first, then makefile must be called to create the "mspacman" program

Commit message:

life lost proper sequence, refresh, and lives draw

README.md, after:

Amidar 500

This is a (successful) attempt by jotd to create a 1:1 port of the famous arcade game on Amiga 500 using 100% 68k assembly.

The display is 4:3 so scores, lives, bonuses are on the side rather than on top/botton. The gameplay layout is 1:1 vs
the original, though.

REQUIRES:

- any 68k CPU
- Kickstart 1.3, 512k memory or
- Kickstart 2.0, 1MB memory

FEATURES:

- original visual & sounds
- original ghost behaviour & speed
- 50 frames per second (PAL) even on a 68000 A500
- all levels & bonuses
- original intro
- joystick controlled (port 1) or keyboard controls (arrows + space)
- can run directly from shell or from whdload (fast machines/complex configurations)

CONTROLS:

- joystick directions/arrows: move pacman
- space/fire button: start game
- P/second button: pause
- F10 (or quitkey): quit

ISSUES:

- turn correction not perfect, sometimes character blocks
- level 1: thief almost 8 loops: attacks
- level 2: thief almost 7 loops: attacks
- so on...
- rip extra life sound
- rip thief attack sound
- thief attack pauses, then more or less random, then follow
- highscore table: duplicate highscore from actual table
- enemy speed increasing
- number of enemies increasing
- killed on horiz: hanging, killed on vertical: falling
- enemy killed score 1 score per enemy sprite. or blit score in white
- dead: refresh filled square: redraw that plane

CREDITS:

- jotd: code and gfx/sfx conversion
- phx: sfx/module player
- meynaf: random routine
- eab forum: useful advice & support
- Superjustinbros: sprite rips https://www.spriters-resource.com/arcade/amidar
- konami: original game :)

BUILDING FROM SOURCES:

Prerequesites:

- Windows
- python
- Amiga NDK
- sox (included)
- vasm 68k (included)

* besides the .bin files created from png by python, the rest of the process could be built on an amiga with phxass
 or some other assembler and sox for the amiga, but you have to be really mad to attempt it in 2021...)
* could be done on Linux, just rebuild vasm

Build process:

- To create the ".bin" files and some palette .s asm files, from "assets" subdir, 
  just run the "convert_sprites.py" python script, then use the "convert_sounds.py"
  python script (audio).
- python and sox must be installed to be able to perform the wav2raw conversions
- get "bitplanelib.py" (asset conversion tool needs it) at https://github.com/jotd666/amiga68ktools.git

Binary assets must be created first, then makefile must be called to create the "mspacman" program
